\input texinfo
@c vim: set ft=texinfo noet ts=8 sts=8 sw=8 tw=80 spell :

@setfilename index.info
@include version_index.texi
@settitle GNU Gengetopt @value{VERSION}
@finalout

This program generates a C function that uses @emph{getopt_long} function to
parse the command line options, to validate them and fills a @emph{struct}.
Thus your program can now handle options such as:

@example
myprog --input foo.c -o foo.o --no-tabs -i 100 *.class
@end example

And both long options (those that start with --) and short options (start with
- and consist of only one character) can be handled. For standards about short
and long options you may want to take a look at the
@uref{https://www.gnu.org/prep/standards_toc.html, GNU Coding Standards}.

Gengetopt can also generate a function to save the command line options into a
file, and a function to read the command line options from a file. Of course,
these two kinds of files are compliant.

Generated code is commented with @uref{https://www.doxygen.org, Doxygen}
comments.

Gengetopt is @strong{free software}. Please see the file @uref{LICENSE} and
@uref{COPYING} for details. Use of gengetopt @strong{does not impose any
particular license on the generated code, the generated code is considered to
be in public domain}.

Gengetopt has originally been written by @strong{Roberto Arturo Tena Sanchez}
and currently maintained by @strong{Tomas Volf}.

Gengetopt is a @uref{https://www.gnu.org, GNU} program and its main home page is
at GNU site @uref{https://www.gnu.org/software/gengetopt}.

@section Documentation

For complete documentation, please see @uref{gengetopt.html}.

@section Download

You can download it from GNU's ftp site @uref{ftp://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/gengetopt/}
or from one of its @uref{https://www.gnu.org/prep/ftp.html, mirrors}. You can
also use https protocol to benefit from encryption:
@uref{https://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/gengetopt/}. Binaries are not distributed, please
either use your distribution's version or compile your own.

@subsection Anonymous Git Checkout

This project's git repository can be checked out through the following clone
instruction:

@example
git clone git://git.savannah.gnu.org/gengetopt.git
@end example

Further instructions can be found at the address
@uref{https://savannah.gnu.org/projects/gengetopt} and the git repository can
also browsed on-line at @uref{https://git.savannah.gnu.org/cgit/gengetopt.git}.

Please note that this way you will get the latest development sources of
Gengetopt, which may also be unstable. This solution is the best if you intend
to correct/extend this program. You should send me patches against the latest
git repository sources.

If, on the contrary, you want to get the sources of a given release through git,
say, e.g., version X.Y.Z, you must check out the tag @code{rel_X_Y_Z}.

When you compile the sources that you get from the git repository, before
running the @code{configure} and @code{make} commands, for the first time, you
must run the command:

@example
autoreconf -i
@end example

This will run the autotools commands in the correct order, and also copy
possibly missing files. You need to have installed recent versions of
@code{automake}, @code{autoconf} and @code{libtool} in order for this to
succeed.

@subsection CVS

Since version 2.22.4 of Gengetopt the CVS repository was dismissed in favor of
Git. The CVS repository is no longer updated or used.

@section Bugs

If you find a bug in gengetopt, please use the
@uref{https://savannah.gnu.org/bugs/?group=gengetopt, Savannah web interface}
to report it.

@section Changes in this release

See @uref{NEWS} for a summary of new features and user visible changes in this
release. See @uref{ChangeLog} for complete list of changes.

@section Other

Please send FSF & GNU inquiries & questions to @uref{mailto:gnu@@gnu.org}. There
are also @uref{https://www.gnu.org/home.html#ContactInfo, other ways to contact}
the FSF.

Please send comments on these web pages to @uref{mailto:webmasters@@gnu.org},
send other questions to @uref{mailto:gnu@@gnu.org}.

@section Copyright

Copyright (C) 2001 Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111, USA

Verbatim copying and distribution of this entire article is permitted in any
medium, provided this notice is preserved.
@bye
